# 3.3 Tuple basics

## Tuples

- A tuple, usually pronounced "tuhple" or "toople", behaves similar to a list but is immutable – once created the tuple's elements cannot be changed. A tuple is also a sequence type, supporting len(), indexing, and other sequence type functions. A new tuple is generated by creating a list of comma-separated values, such as 5, 15, 20. Typically, tuples are surrounded with parentheses, as in (5, 15, 20). Note that printing a tuple always displays surrounding parentheses.
- A tuple is not as common as a list in practical usage, but can be useful when a programmer wants to ensure that values do not change. Tuples are typically used when element position, and not just the relative ordering of elements, is important. Ex: A tuple might store the latitude and longitude of a landmark because a programmer knows that the first element should be the latitude, the second element should be the longitude, and the landmark will never move from those coordinates.

## Named tuples

- A program commonly captures collections of data; for example, a car could be described using a series of variables describing the make, model, retail price, horsepower, and number of seats. A named tuple allows the programmer to define a new simple data type that consists of named attributes. A Car named tuple with fields like Car.price and Car.horsepower would more clearly represent a car object than a list with index positions correlating to some attributes.
- The namedtuple container must be imported to create a new named tuple. Once the container is imported, the named tuple should be created like in the example below, where the name and attribute names of the named tuple are provided as arguments to the namedtuple constructor. Note that the fields to include in the named tuple are found in a list, but may also be a single string with space or comma separated values.
- namedtuple() only creates the new simple data type, and does not create new data objects. Above, a new data object is not created until Car() is called with appropriate values. A data object's attributes can be accessed using dot notation, as in chevy_blazer.price. This "named" attribute is simpler to read than if using a list or tuple referenced via index like chevy_blazer[2].
- Like normal tuples, named tuples are immutable. A programmer wishing to edit a named tuple would replace the named tuple with a new object.

## Remember

- Tuples can not be changed
- They are immutable
