# 3.5 Dictionary basics

## Creating a dictionary

- Consider a normal English language dictionary – a reader looks up the word "cat" and finds the definition, "A small, domesticated carnivore."
- The relationship between "cat" and its definition is associative, i.e., "cat" is associated with some words describing "cat."
- a dictionary is a Python container used to describe associative relationships
- A dictionary represented by the dict object type. A dictionary associates (or "maps") keys with values.
- A key is a term that can be located in a dictionary, such as the word "cat" in the English dictionary.
- a Value describes some data associated with a key, such as a definition. A key can be any immutable type, such as a number, string, or tuple; a value can be any type.
- A dict object is created using curly braces { } to surround the key:value pairs that comprise the dictionary contents.

## Example

    - players = {'Lionel Messi': 10, 'Cristiano Ronaldo': 7} 
    - creates a dictionary called players with two keys: 'Lionel Messi' and 'Cristiano Ronaldo'
    - associated with the values 10 and 7 (their respective jersey numbers). An empty dictionary is created with the expression players = { }.

## Continuing dictionary

- Dictionaries are typically used in place of lists when an associative relationship exists.
- Ex: If a program contains a collection of anonymous student test scores, those scores should be stored in a list. However, if each score is associated with a student name, a dictionary could be used to associate student names to their score. Other examples of associative relationships include last names and addresses, car models and price, or student ID number and university email address.

## Input

    - players = {
    'Lionel Messi': 10,
    'Cristiano Ronaldo': 7
}

print(players)

## Output

    - {'Lionel Messi': 10, 'Cristiano Ronaldo': 7}

## Accessing dictionary entries

- Though dictionaries maintain a left-to-right ordering, dictionary entries cannot be accessed by indexing. To access an entry, the key is specified in brackets [ ]. If no entry with a matching key exists in the dictionary, then a KeyError runtime error occurs and the program is terminated.
