# 2.2 Identifiers

## Rules for identifiers

- A programmer gives names to various items, such as variables (and also functions, described later).
- For example, x =5 uses the name "x" to refer to the value 5.
- An identifier, also called a name, is a sequence of letters (a-z, A-Z), underscore (_). and digits (0-9), and must start with a letter or an underscore.
- Python is case sensitive, meaning upper- and lowercase letters differ. Ex: "Cat" and "cat" are different. The following are valid names: c, cat, Cat, n1m1, short1, and _hello. The following are invalid names: 42c (doesn't start with a letter or underscore), hi there (has a space), and cat$ (has a symbol other than a letter, digit, or underscore).
- Names that start and end with double underscores (for example, __init__) are allowed but should be avoided because Python has special usages for double underscore names, explained elsewhere. A good variable name should describe the purpose of the variable, such as "temperature" or "age," rather than just "t" or "A."
- Certain words like "and" or "True" cannot be used as names. Reserved words, or keywords, are words that are part of the language, and thus, cannot be used as a programmer-defined name. Many language editors will automatically color a program's reserved words. A list of reserved words appears at the end of this section.

## Keyword

    Keyword/vocabulary words to remember here are
    - "reserved words"
    - could also be referred to keywords, but usually Reserved words.
