# 3.2 List basics

## Creating a list

- A container is a construct used to group related values together and contains references to other objects instead of data. A list is a container created by surrounding a sequence of variables or literals with brackets[].

### List Example

    - Ex: my_list = [10, 'abc'] creates a new list variable my_list that contains the two items: 10 and 'abc'. 
    - A list item is called an element.

## Continuing with lists

- A list is also a sequence, meaning the contained elements are ordered by position in the list, known as the element's index, starting with 0.
- my_list = [ ] creates an empty list.
- A list itself is an object, and its value is a sequence of references to the list's elements.

## Accessing list elements

- Lists are useful for reducing the number of variables in a program. Instead of having a separate variable for the name of every student in a class, or for every word in an email, a single list can store an entire collection of related variables.
- Individual list elements can be accessed using an indexing expression by using brackets as in my_list[i], where i is an integer. This allows a programmer to quickly find the i'th element in a list.
- A list's index must be an integer. The index cannot be a floating-point type, even if the value is a whole number like 0.0 or 1.0. Using any type besides an integer will produce a runtime error and the program will terminate.

## Updating list elements

- Lists are mutable
- Meaning that a programmer can change a list's contents. An element can be updated with a new value by performing an assignment to a position in the list.

## Adding and removing list elements

- Since list are mutable, a programmer can also use methods to add and remove elements
- A method instructs an object to perform some action, and is executed by specifying the method name following a "." symbol and an object.

## Syntax for lists

    - Append() list method is used to add new elements to a list.
    - Elements can be removed using
    - pop() or remove() methods

## Examples

    - list.append(value): Adds value to the end of list. Ex: my_list.append('abc')
    - list.pop(i): Removes the element at index i from list. Ex: my_list.pop(1)
    - list.remove(v): Removes the first element whose value is v. Ex: my_list.remove('abc')

## Sequence-type methods and functions

- Sequence-type functions are built-in functions that operate on sequences like lists and strings. Sequence-type methods are methods built into the class definitions of sequences like lists and strings. A subset of such functions and methods is provided below.

## Operation and Description

    - len(list) = Find the length of the list.
    - list1 + list2 = Produce a new list by concatenating list2 to the end of list1.
    - min(list) = Find the element in list with the smallest value. All elements must be of the same type.
    - max(list) = Find the element in list with the largest value. All elements must be of the same type.
    - sum(list) = Find the sum of all elements of a list (numbers only).
    - list.index(val) = Find the index of the first element in list whose value matches val.
    - list.count(val) = Count the number of occurrences of the value val in list.

## <https://www.markdownguide.org/extended-syntax/#:~:text=To%20add%20a%20table%2C%20use,either%20end%20of%20the%20row>
