# 3.4 Set Basics

## set basics

- A set is an unordered collection of unique elements. Sets have the following properties:
  - Elements are unordered: Elements in the set do not have a position or index.
  - Elements are unique: No elements in the set share the same value.
- A set can be created using the set() function, which accepts a sequence-type iterable object (list, tuple, string, etc.) whose elements are inserted into the set. A set literal can be written using curly braces { } with commas separating set elements. Note that an empty set can only be created using set().
- Because the elements of a set are unordered and have no meaningful position in the collection, the index operator is not valid. Attempting to access the element of a set by position, for example nums1[2] to access the element at index 2, is invalid and will produce a runtime error.
- A set is often used to reduce a list of items that potentially contains duplicates into a collection of unique values. Simply passing a list into set() will cause any duplicates to be omitted in the created set.

## Modifying sets

- Sets are mutable – elements can be added or removed using set methods. The add() method places a new element into the set if the set does not contain an element with the provided value. The remove() and pop() methods remove an element from the set.
- Additionally, sets support the len() function to return the number of elements in a set. To check if a specific value exists in a set, a membership test such as value in set (discussed in another section) can be used.
- Adding elements to a set:
  - set.add(value): Add value into the set. Ex: my_set.add('abc')
- Remove elements from a set:
  - set.remove(value): Remove the element with given value from the set. Raises KeyError if value is not found. Ex: my_set.remove('abc')
  - set.pop(): Remove a random element from the set. Ex: my_set.pop()

## insert table 3.4.1

- Operation - Description
  - len(set) === Find the length (number of elements) of the set.
  - set1.update(set2) === Adds the elements in set2 to set1.
  - set.add(value) === Adds value into the set.
  - set.remove(value) === Removes value from the set. Raises - -  KeyError if value is not found.
  - set.pop() === Removes a random element from the set.
  - set.clear()=== Clears all elements from the set.

## Set operations

- Python set objects support typical set theory operations like intersections and unions. A brief overview of common set operations supported in Python are provided below:

## 3.4.2: common set theory operations table

Operation -  Description
    - set.intersection(set_a, set_b, set_c...) Returns a new set containing only the elements in common between set and all provided sets.
    - set.union(set_a, set_b, set_c...) Returns a new set containing all of the unique elements in all sets.
    - set.difference(set_a, set_b, set_c...) Returns a set containing only the elements of set that are not found in any of the provided sets.
    - set_a.symmetric_difference(set_b) Returns a set containing only elements that appear in exactly one of set_a or set_b

## Remember

    - created using curly braces {}
    - Sets are mutable
